---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/revision-notes/grade-7/sst/1-personal-development/"}
---

# Self Exploration
**What is self exploration?**
- This is basically learning more of yourself.
- It involves studying ones:
  - Thoughts
  - Beliefs
  - Values
  - Strengths
  - Weaknesses.
- The main goal is to understand yourself better.
## Personal interests and abilities
**What are personal abilities and interests?**
**Personal abilities:**
- Personal abilities are basically the things you are good at.
- Examples are: 
  - logical thinking
  - Solving math problems
  - Creativity
  - Programming
  - Public speaking
  - Problem solving
- Personal abilities can be used to do tasks and solve problems, basically, they are useful and are skills you can use.
**Personal interests:**
- Personal interests are the activities or things that you find fun and enjoyable.
- Examples are:
  - Playing football
  - Drawing
  - Reading
  - Swimming
  - Cycling
- Personal interests can guide you in further career choices.

## Personal values for a steady personality
- A steady personality is having a friendly, balanced, calm and reliable character.
- Here are a few values for a steady personality:
  - Self-discipline
  - Respect
  - Humility
  - Patience
  - Confidence
  - Honesty

## Managing emotions
**What are emotions?**
- Emotions are strong feelings.
- Emotions can be positive or negative.
- Negative emotions include: Fear, anger, sadness.
- Positive emotions include: Happiness and love.
**How can we manage emotions in day-to-day life?**
- Understanding why you feel that way.
- Practise self-control
- Talk to a trusted adult.
- Avoid triggering/tempting situations.
- Listening to music.
- Avoiding negative peer pressure.

# Entrepreneurial opportunities in Social Studies

**What are entrepreneurial opportunities?**
- These are activities that can be done by an individual to make a profit and earn a living.
**What are examples of entrepreneurial opportunities?**
- Fish farming
- Mining
- Horticultural farming
- Weaving & Basketry
- Pottery
- Beef farming
- Bee keeping
- Dairy farming.

